.TH "CTGSE" "1"
.SH NAME
CTGSE \- Controller's options for Gentoo Stateless Environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gse 
--build-controller 
[\fBOPTIONS\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.nf
\fBController\fR lies inside the initramfs image. It's a set of scripts that are sourced on certain dracut 
hook points that aim to fetch,configure,recover the system. The configuration it self, while it is for 
general use, it is aimed mostly to support a stateless boot.
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
.nf
Forces the build to write over an existing controller image. Dracut itself requires a force option to
write over pre-existing images.
.fi
.TP
\fB\-\-cmdline\fR \fI\[=options]\fR
This options enables dracut's cmdline opt. It is used here, since controller requires certain cmdline options to function. Additional cmdline
are for supporting extra features.
.fi
.TP
\fB\-\-hook\fR \fI[="Hook Points"]\fR \fI[="Hook Points Priority"]\fR
Installs the script inside the initramfs to be sourced over a specific hook point.
.fi
.TP
\fB\-\-net\fR \fI\[=net_script]\fR
This requires as argument a script file. The file will be installed and sourced over the pre-mount hook point with a priority of 08.
This option aims to provide a way of configuring complex network interfaces. Just write your net script and build it with this option
inside the initramfs image.
.fi
.TP
\fB\-\-modules\fR
Install a custom file to handle modules under /etc/modprobe.d/ with name umod.conf
.fi
.TP
\fB\-\-dracut_opt\fR
This option lets you tunnel extra dracut options before building the image.
.fi

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
man 5 gse

