.TH "GSE CONFIG.D OVERVIEW" "5"

.PP
The config.d directory hosts all the configuration files that are used to build a system.
While the building process depends on those files, they are not considered core files (except three), meaning that
GSE is not requiring those to function. If they miss, GSE will simply skip the part that depends on those.
.fi
.PP
However, while those configuration files are not runtime dependencies for GSE, they are the incarnation
of GSE, since from those, it provides the means to configure and build the system the way someone wishes and
control the hosts that run upon that. Therefore, someone can argue, that these files are the most important aspect of
GSE, since from those, derive all the functions that someone would find interesting and install GSE in the 
first place.
.fi

.PP
.nf
The config.d directory lies under /usr/lib64/gse and hosts two main sub-directories.
	I)  System
	II) Controller
.fi
.PP
The system sub-directory hosts all the configuration files that are used during the system built and configuration.
Configuration files like hostname, make.conf, portage profile, package.use, system links, fstab entries are common
files under this sub-directory. 

It was noted above that three files under the config.d directory are considered core files. Those files lie under this
sub-directory and are:
.fi
.PP
.nf
	I)   Fstab entries
	II)  Driver interface
	III) Catalyst
.fi

.PP
The fstab and driver interface files are considered core items, since from those GSE will read what kind of interface 
it should expect to see or create on the new hosts. For example, boot/system/userdata file system type/size and mount options.

The third and last entry (Catalyst) is important if catalyst is used as the foundation of the new system. The catalyst directory
hosts the spec files, catalyst.conf and catalystrc files, which will inform catalyst about the built and options it should apply.
.fi

.PP
The second main sub-directory is called controller. The controller sub-directory hosts all the configuration files that are used
from the initramfs functions on the hosts, during the boot-up. Those files are fetched from the hosts on boot-up and are considered
as a way of server-client communication.
.fi
.PP
Each time a host boots-up, it will search for network connection and if it can establish one, then it will proceed with fetching this
directory from the server. From those file, the host will be informed about new changes, e.g. fstab changes, hostname changes, server
IP changes, ssh pub key changes, gpg public key changes,...
.fi
.PP
Since those files provide a way of control from the server to clients, GSE provides an option for masking a specific file or directory.
A mask informs the controller that no change should happen to that file, whatever the new fetched version instructs.
.fi