.TH "GSE CORE SCRIPTS OVERVIEW" "5"

.PP
.nf
The core script's that consist GSE are:
			I)		gse under /bin
			II)		sinit under /usr/lib64/gse/scripts
			III)	sinit_functions under /usr/lib64/gse/scripts/functions
			IV)		catalyst_functions under /usr/lib64/gse/scripts/functions
			V)		drv_interface under /usr/lib64/gse/scripts/functions
			VI)		init_stage3_seq under /usr/lib64/gse/scripts/functions
			VII)	makeconf_ed	under /usr/lib64/gse/scripts/functions
			VIII)	men_opt under /usr/lib64/gse/scripts/functions
			IX)		chroot_sinit under /usr/lib64/gse/scripts/chroot_functions
			X)		cfunctions under /usr/lib64/gse/scripts/chroot_functions
.fi
.PP
The gse script is the first script that runs. From this script the paths, workdirs, configdirs, distdirs are set
and everything that follows is sourced. The most important thing function that this script provides, is a way to call
warp function after ensuring that all the above paths and directories have been set and exported. The warp function is
the main function that initiates the building sequence. It's and autonomous process, meaning that someone could call just
this function if he had set manually the above directories and paths.
.fi
.PP
The sinit script is the main script that controls Stage: A. For more information about stages and parts, see man 5 gse.
.fi
.PP
The sinit_functions is a file with all the functions that sinit requires to complete the process. Actually this file holds
almost all functions of Stage: A and it in fact is sourced even before the warp function is called.
.fi
.PP
The catalyst_functions are the set all of functions that are required by the init_stage3_seq scrip.
.fi
.PP
The drv_interfface is a script which generates the driver interface to be created on all host files. From this script, someone
can set the boot,system,userdata file-systems types and sizes.
.fi
.PP
The init_stage3_seq is a script that is sourced when the catalyst base option is provided. This script will scan for portage snapshot,
create or download a new one if no local snapshot is found or the one provided fails to satisfy certain conditions. Then, it will initiate
the building sequence of stage{1,2,3}. For each stage it will automatically read, filter and export the spec files that are provided for the process.
.fi
.PP
Makeconf_ed is a simple script that is either initiated manually from the main menu or automatically by the warp function. This script will use
a default make.conf files and edit it with MAKEOPTS, EMERGE_DEFAULT_OPTS, SYSTEM ARCH, FEATURES and GENTOO MIRRORS. A completely optional script, that
wont harm the process if it's missing, however it is recommended to keep it and use it, since it provides a fast way of creating a simple make.conf file, 
optimized for compilation as described in GCC Optimization wiki page.
.fi
.PP
The chroot_sinit script is the script that controls the Stage: B. This stage actually is a chroot stage, meaning that GSE will chroot to the new
system, configure it, update it and apply all requested packages, profiles and system links.
.fi
.PP The cfunctions is the same as catalyst_functions and sinit_functions. All functions that are required by chroot_sinit lie here.
.fi