.TH "CONTROLLER OVERVIEW" "5"

.PP
Note: The following entries are part of man 5 gse. For more information about GSE, please refer there.
.fi
.SH "CONTROLLER"
.nf
\fBThe controller\fR consists from a set of scripts, functions and files that lie inside the initramfs.
The concept of it, derives from the need to controll and make changes to multiple systems that host the
images created from the builder. By names definition, the controller is responsible making dicisions
before the system begins booting, that is, before the initramfs handles the control to the main system.

.TP
\fBController's functions\fR
-Fetch configuration data from the server
-Check local version with the server's version
-Check the health integrity of SYSFS and BACKUPFS
-Apply new configuration files to the SYSFS
-Update runlevels
-Create new drive interfaces
-Create filesystems
-Create and modify LABELS
-Switch BOOTFS
-Mount /etc and other directories as tmpfs
-Decide which partition will be named SYSFS
-Create,delete and modify subvolumes
-Even wipe the whole setup and start new
.fi
.PP
.nf
The above features can be acceced and modifed, while not recommended from the controller modules.
The modules are located at "$GSE/config.d/controller/modules" and are orginized by categories.
.fi
.PP
.nf
The controller is built inside the initramfs at the end of the chroot part. While that makes the
reproduction of the controller a slower process, the reason to include be included at that part,
is to shield off rebuilding the host's kernel. This feature will be transfered outside the chroot
phase in the future, making it independent from the rest of the process. Meaning that Part H. and
Part I. would be moved out of Stage B.
.fi
.SH "GSE PROFILE"
.nf
The GSE profile, is an experimental profile which aims to enable early functions, features and flags
for the purpose of assisting computer labs on Research facilities and University labs. 
The projects idea was born to aid such needs, and the profile is a way reflecting those.

The profile enables global support for programming languages and global support for math functions.
This profile will be split in other parts in the future, to support embedded systems, by enabling
fewer flags and emerging as much as possible fewer packages. But for now it is simply tested.
.fi