.TH "GSE OVERVIEW" "5"

.PP
.nf
There are 5 important directories regarding GSE.
.PP
	I)		The config.d directory under /usr/lib64/gse
	II)		The scripts directory under /usr/lib64/gse
	III)	The gse directory under /etc
	IV)		The dist.d directory, default under /var/tmp/gse
	V)		The local directory under /var/tmp/gse
.fi

.PP
The config.d directory holds all configuration files that describe the items and features to be added or enabled on the system to be built.
.fi
.PP
The scripts directory actually is GSE. This directory holds all the functions that are either initiated directly from /bin/gse or sourced
during the process. It is not recommended to modify those files, since gse provides many configuration files targeted for the system and additionally
it provides a custom script mechanism, with which someone could source whatever he wishes, without modifying any core scripts.
.fi
.PP
GSE configuration files. Those files instruct GSE where to look for important items that regard mostly the Part: A Fundamentals, for example: 
the GSE pub key, stage3 tarball, portage snapshot.
.fi
.PP
The dist.d directory is where GSE will do all the work after the catalyst part, which is a separate process. Under dist.d GSE keeps all the workdirs,
and Downloaded items (stage3 tarball, portage snapshot, md5sum files,...).
.fi
.PP
The local directory holds all the gse log files, states and extra files important for controlling the building sequence.
.fi
.PP
.nf
Note: For more technical details of GSE functions and features, please check man 1 gse.
.fi